we have technology
it didn't work
[Music]
that used to be me every single time i
ran into a
error until i realized just how easy it
is to fix these errors
so in this video i'm going to show you
everything you need to know about course
so you never have to run into these
types of errors
here's a quick example of a course error
as you can see i just have a simple
script file that's running on my client
it's accessing our server trying to get
some data and it's trying to print that
data out and on our server you can see
we have that data response
we're just using express to set up the
server listening on port 3000
and as you can see when we're trying to
fetch from localhost 5500
to localhost 3000 it's saying that we
cannot fetch that because of course
and it's saying that no access control
allow origin header is present on the
requested resource
and that tells you exactly what you need
to do to fix cores
in order to allow a request to go from
one origin to another so for example
localhost port 5500 to localhost 3000
we need to tell the browser hey we allow
requests to come from other urls
and this is what the access control
allow origin allows us to do it says
where do you allow requests to come from
so our server is telling our client
hey these are the allowed urls that are
able to access us
by default the only allowed url is the
same origin that you come from so we can
make requests from our current origin
but when you're trying to make requests
from a different origin you need to
specify the origins that are allowed
now in order to do this setting of the
header inside of express
we're going to be using a library called
cores to do that and i'll show you the
before and after of what happens
we go to the network tab here we can see
that this data request is being made
and if i just try to come in here and
look at the different headers you can
see that my response headers has nothing
to do with that application
or access control allow origins you can
see it doesn't exist anywhere inside of
here
but if we install that coors library so
we say npmi
cores that's just going to install those
for express there's a million different
ways to do this depending on what
library you're using so if you're using
express it's going to be this course
library
if you're using like python or go
there's going to be their own library or
you can manually set the headers on your
own
but we can just say app.use course and
this is a function
and the first thing we're going to pass
to it is our origin and this is the
origin of the client that we allow
which we know is just localhost 5500
so now if i just make sure that i take
cores and require
that cores library and i save you can
see that
if we go over to our console we're still
getting that request error and that's
because this origin has a value of
localhost 5500
but it's not equal to 127.0.0.1 because
that's our actual url
so let's say 127.0.0.1
now when we save you can see it actually
prints out the data instead of giving us
a course error
if we come in here let's just make sure
we refresh all this open up our data and
you can see we have an access control
allow origin
and it has the actual url that we're
trying to make the request
from so our server is saying hey you
know what if you're coming from this
you know origin then we allow any
request to come up
but let's say this is 5501 that's now a
different origin
so now we're getting that error because
it's saying hey you know what you're not
equal to the allowable origins
also if you want to allow any origin at
all just put a star inside of here
and now if we save this with just a star
you can see that the data is coming
through just fine
and that's because our axis allowed
origins here we come in here our access
control
origin is for every single thing it's
because we have a star here
now this works great when it comes to
things like git and post request this is
going to solve all of your problems for
cores immediately
but if you need to do something like a
put request so if we change this to a
put
and then inside of here we just make our
method
a put method well now we actually have
a different problem that we're going to
run into you'll notice we come in here
let's just
change this back to http
127.0.0.1 port 550
and we click save here and we go to our
console you notice it's printing
everything out just fine
if we go over to our network tab though
and we go to this other section you're
going to notice we also have these
things called
options request and options request is
essentially a preflight request
whenever we do something like a put or
we do something like a delete
we're going to need to do this options
request to make sure we're allowed to do
this put in this delete and if we scroll
down to the response headers you'll see
this access control request method
it's saying hey i want to make a put
request am i allowed to do that
and if you scroll up you're going to see
that we also respond with access control
allowed methods and by default this is
returning everything git head put patch
post delete so it's saying we're allowed
to do all these different types of
things
well inside of course we can actually
change our methods so we can just say
methods
we can pass in an array so we could say
you know what only allow git
and post request no put no none of that
now when i save and i go to the console
we're getting a coors error and that's
because we're trying to use the method
put
but it's not being allowed if we go to
that options you can see that we only
are allowing git
and post and that doesn't match the put
that we're trying to actually do a
request
on we can use this method to fine tune
what different things we allow
other urls to actually do by default
it's allowing everything with this
course library but we could say you know
only do git and post and no puts are
going to be allowed
or we could remove that and now if this
will actually successfully work because
put
is being allowed now the final thing
that i want to talk about with course is
going to be how you can actually send up
cookies because by
default cookies are blocked if we come
into here we can just say that we want
to pass
in credentials and we just say include
that's going to include our credentials
in the request and you notice we
immediately get
cores issues again because we don't have
an access control allow credentials
header so we need to set this access
control allow credentials header
on the server this is as easy as just
saying with i'm sorry credentials
and setting that to true that is going
to set this access control allow
credentials
and if we go to our network and we go
and we scroll down here you'll see
access control allow credentials is set
to true that's all there is to cores
if you're interested in more security
related videos they're going to be
linked over here and a full written
version of this video is also linked
down in the description below
thank you very much for watching and
have a good day